today we are visiting true garden it's a
vertical aeroponic food farm I was
really excited to go here because I
originally stumbled across true garden
and their farm on Instagram and it's so
cool-looking it's just a series of
columns that are covered in different
vegetables and fruits that are
completely fresh and I was mostly
interested to see what the biology of
growing food was like because vertical
farms grow food in a very different and
sustainable way
my name's Troy Albright I'm actually a
licensed pharmacist as I've done consult
on my patients I realize it starts with
the food they're putting in their body
Troy is a licensed pharmacist by trade
he went through school in the very
modern medical way of doing things and
through the process of having children
of his own with their own el misses and
conditions and also being overweight
himself he changed how he approached
food and what he put in his body and it
changed everything for him in his family
my parents and grandparents were farmers
in Minnesota and we had blacks well
they're here in Arizona the soil is like
this red clay stuff so if you don't
amend it and really work that soil you
don't get a lot of good quality produce
out of it so when I saw the tower garden
I can control the environment I control
the water I control the nutrients I love
this I can control every aspect of
growing my own food so how does this
whole process work basically the first
step is to put whatever sees you want
into the coconut core this grow medium
here is coco coir it's actually a
certified organic grow medium and it's a
byproduct of coconut husk and you throw
it put your seeds in there and then once
they're 1 to 2 inches tall like this
then we can come over here and and just
plant these right in here they fit right
in the in the pod you throw it in the
pump turns on every 3 to 15 minutes to
being on the program pumps the water and
the nutrient solution all the way up to
the top and then just using the long
view of physics what goes up comes down
right and it just rains down there's a
shower cap rains down and hits all these
spots
I find interesting is that you only need
that amount of soil like you and fishing
just miles and miles of dirt and soil to
grow plants right you only need that
okay yep very from every different plant
that you're drawing
nope just that small mount it's actually
not even soil it's coconut husk if we
use soil we'd have a lot more bugs we'd
have to use pesticides and herbicides
and fungicides I choose not to use any
of those here Organic is what that's
clean
yep just food yeah do you think that's
really happening today well by the way
you vegetables typically that are
transported into your state by law even
if they're organic are sprayed with
pesticides so that's not ideal the
problem is our soils are depleted there
the FDA has lots of studies showing that
when those leafy greens are cut and
travel what on average 1200 to 1500
miles to get to your plate yeah
pesticides are there 50 percent less
nutrients they've lost up to 50 percent
in some cases there's hardly any
nutritional value
[Music]
here look at some of this basil let's
grab a beautiful basil point you pull
this out look at those beautiful roots
on there I mean look at that that's
insane
this is 21 days old yeah the vegetables
that we saw at true garden were just
growing right there
there was no soil there was minimal
water it was really just their roots
hanging in these hollow tubes being
saturated in nutrients and substances
and growing to be the most beautiful
vegetables if we pull one out here it's
like a beautiful bouquet let's get one
out of here so you can see I mean the
Ritz and you got these beautiful rich I
know my bouquets gonna be for my wedding
oh my gosh it's so stop yeah isn't that
something
once you try a piece of that vegetables
have a much more vibrant and bolder and
fuller flavor then I think most of us
have experienced feel like it tastes
different than what I'm used like I feel
like most romaine lettuce tastes so
watered down right summer's over this is
even better Peter I don't feel like I've
ever tasted romaine that was this sweet
it's stronger it's more unique from
vegetable to vegetable because you're
not getting that dirt flavor a lot of
that comes from growing the fruit or
vegetable in this coconut husk and
feeding it with these nutrient
substances without any soil it's amazing
I don't know how I haven't eaten
was this fresh before and I feel like
everyone needs to like I buy expensive
freaking spinach at the store I'm all
organic everything I hold paycheck at
Whole Foods it happens but it doesn't
taste like this when they grow most
spinach in sand so a lot of times when
you crunch on spinach
you got like a grainy yep that's the
sand that they grow it in so you always
want to rinse it well and get rid of
that whatever the craziest things I
tried was the stevia leaf here try just
a piece of this okay
just a really small amount what is that
it's a natural plant sweetener I just
want to eat this as like an after-dinner
dessert and then I will never eat ice
cream again look I mean that's so sweet
isn't it yeah I have had the stevia
powder but never a stevia leaf oh that
is Stephen this is the actual stevia
plant here Wow you gonna use it in so
many things and it is so powerful I also
tried a mint chocolate herb and it
tasted just like mint chocolate so once
we have a sprout we put it in the tower
26 days later do you have that thing so
this whole thing was 26 days yes nice so
what happens is you get accelerated
growth because the roots can get a lot
of oxygen since there's no soil there's
no weeds which is amazing because puling
weeds
is literally the worst weekend activity
ever vertical farming it's just your
head of lettuce or your kale or your
spinach or your berries or your tomatoes
no bucks no weeds what is the actual
benefit of having a vertical farm versus
having a normal farm that were using a
big part of it is with the vertical farm
we're really saving on space we can use
ninety percent less land but we can grow
ninety percent more food when you go
Brook like this this is one tenth of an
acre we can grow 10 times more food as a
result of going vertical plus our
resources we use 90 to 98 percent less
water that's huge I mean what 3 percent
of the water in the in the world is
fresh water so it's not just a commodity
here in the United States but all over
the world having fresh
so we got to really conserve our
resources and if we don't we're setting
ourselves up for major catastrophe how
many people do you think you could feed
like just out of this space out of this
space we could easily speed gosh 100
families on a weekly basis Wow as we all
know our world is changing the land
available to us is changing the quality
soil that we have on our earth is
changing and this may be the most
sustainable way to feed our communities
moving forward if someone watch this
video and wanted to start gardening
tomorrow or today what would be like
your top three tips grow the things you
love to eat keep it simple
use clean water use good quality
seedlings
we've got residential models as well as
commercial farms so the residential
model is about five or six feet tall
just like you are and when the two
towers could easily feed a family of
four depend on what you're growing
you're gonna be exposed to less
chemicals you'll love it you'll really
love it I was a skeptic I absolutely
thought the biology of this food must be
different if we're not making it with
soil and the same amount of water and
the same amount of sunlight as the
vegetables and fruits were used to but
the matter of the fact is it's better
it's got more nutrients more minerals
it's more dense in the rich vitamins
that your body needs and it's just more
environmentally friendly you know as a
compounding pharmacist I do consults
then I got into this because I really
saw not just my own kids but my own
patients that were missed in the food
part they were missing that nutrition
part and as I corrected nutrition in
them I'm like oh my this changed their
whole life you were taught in pharmacy
school just give a drug give a drug give
a drug drugs are just band-aids they
don't cure us if if you don't have good
nutrition that foundation that we're
building our body on isn't there and so
that leads to all sorts of things you
know depression leaky gut your gum
disease people that are constantly
having headaches and they're not growing
properly our kids don't grow properly
because of nutrition so starts with good
foundation if you have a good good
foundation with nutrition eat it what
you
grow or buy it locally you're gonna be
way healthier so crazy how your diet can
affect pretty much everything it's hard
to put into a sentence how cool and
interesting I thought this whole
experience was I've always been a firm
believer in what you put in your body
matters and the food you put in your
body matters and we are allowing food
industries to spray it with pesticides
to transport it super far change its
enzymes and nutritional benefits so that
when we're receiving the food it's not
even giving us the fuel that we need to
survive in a healthy way the body is an
incredible piece of equipment machinery
you put good stuff in it gets good stuff
out you put bad stuff in in time bad
stuff would come out but you can't
correct it it just takes some some
effort on our part to do what's right
who said that Hippocrates you are what
you eat but food be medicine what
medicine be food he said a lot more
eloquently but you know I firmly believe
that true Garden was quite possibly one
of the most beautiful things I've ever
seen
it was pristine it was green not fake
green not sprayed on green it was
beautiful
vibrant green and the oxygen in that
greenhouse I would like to one day live
in a greenhouse with that pure oxygen
I'm really grateful for the opportunity
to learn about my health to learn about
my food and also to share the
information with you guys in hopes that
it may be changes one thing you don't
have to change everything overnight do
one thing that will make you better
tomorrow than you are today
thank you guys so much for watching it
was one of my favorite videos to make
and share with you all if you care about
health and wellness I want to learn more
you should definitely watch our tutorial
on how to make natural cleaning supplies
because what you spray around in the air
around you matters too